Introduction to Chatbot
Chatbot is a computer program designed to converse with humans using natural language. It all started with the Turing Test, developed by the legendary scientist Alan Turing in 1950 in an article entitled ''Computing Machinery and Intelligence.''. It is a conversation-based approach used to determine if a computer program is indistinguishable from a human being. More specifically, if a human being can't tell whether one was speaking to a human or to a chatbot, the chatbot passes the test. Thus, a primary aim of these conversational programs is to simulate human conversations and pass the Turing Test. To have a meaningful and intelligent conversation, intelligence, knowledge and linguistic skills are the basic requirements. So, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques have been heavily used in developing chatbots.
ELIZA, created in 1966 by Joseph Weizenbaum, was one of the first chatbots. It imitated the language of a psychotherapist by matching keywords with scripted answers. Although ELIZA was able to fool some users into thinking that they were actually talking to a human, it was never expected to mimic human intelligence. The next noteworthy chatbot came relatively soon afterward, in 1972. Sometimes referred to as ''ELIZA with attitude'', PARRY simulated the thinking of a paranoid schizophrenic. Designed by a psychiatrist, Kenneth Colby, PARRY was a much more serious attempt at creating an artificial intelligence, and in the early 1970s, it became the first machine pass a version of the Turing Test.
The Turing Test looks for presence of mind, thought, and intelligence on the part of a ''thinking'' machine. And the modern way to administrate the Turing Test is through Loebner Prize competition that started in 1991. This annual competition awards prizes to the most human-like computer programs, continuing to the present day. ALICE, made in 1995, was the Loebner Prize winner in 2000, 2001, and 2004. Inspired by ELIZA, its heuristic matching patterns proved a substantial upgrade on previous chatbots. In the half century since ELIZA was released, chatbots have come a long way. Chatbot technology improves every year in part thanks to the Loebner Prize. The introduction of machine learning capabilities in chatbots has vastly improved the human-like quotient of their conversations. There are some AI chatbots, like Rose and Mitsuku, who are difficult to differentiate from real people, especially if the user doesn't know they're speaking to a bot. Most bots, though, still betray themselves as machines over short interactions. And it is still far from acquiring human level intelligence.
As important as attempting to be human, chatbots have been developed with other goals. Many AI specialists have focused on building bots for specific purposes, mostly as virtual assistants capable of accessing data and answering questions. In 2006, IBM Watson was developed to answer questions on the quiz show Jeopardy. And it beat a pair of former Jeopardy champions in 2011. Its high level of linguistic intelligence came from hundreds of language analysis algorithms and the access to enormous databases of information. Now, Watson serves as the ''brains'' for many chatbots across all industries and sectors. Starting with IBM, many big players come aboard the chatbot ship. The first half of this decade witnessed the rise of virtual personal assistants: Siri (2010), Google Now (2012), Alexa (2015), Cortana (2015), and Google Assistant (2016).
While bot technology has been around for over half a century, chatbots' machine learning capabilities have been progressing by leaps and bounds recently. AI chatbots have been a focus of active research and investment by Silicon Valley, which has helped accelerate development. Given the advancements in artificial intelligence and the considerable amount of time most customers spend on messaging applications, the platforms that enable the delivery of chatbot experiences are being rapidly developed. Huge companies like Facebook, Apple, Google and Microsoft are contributing significant resources to deliver interactions between consumers and machines with commercially-viable business models. Chatbots became all the rage for several messaging apps. LINE opened its API to chatbot developers in 2016 and in the same year Facebook enabled bot development on their Messenger platform. More than 100000 bots are being functioning at Facebook Messenger by now, affording the business to contact consumers in real time mode. Twitter followed suite in April 2017 by opening its direct messaging channel to chatbots. Serving as virtual assistants, the majority of these chatbots perform customer service or customer engagement functions, answering questions or offering suggestions for purchase. Communicating with chatbots will not just stop at businesses and brands. Soon we will be using chatbots to communicate with other machines and connected devices. This is already happening with Amazon Echo and Google products.
However, using chatbots can raise some tricky choices and ethical dilemmas, especially as chatbots become harder to distinguish from humans. A chatbot designed to misrepresent its identity, gather and use information without consent, or hurt the user is obviously unethical and possibly illegal. Although not intended to be, chatbots can grow out of control as they learn. The most recent example, and certainly the most high-profile was Tay, Microsoft's Twitter-based chatbot. The intent was for Tay to interact with Twitter users and learn how to communicate with them. Unfortunately, in less than a day, Tay's primary lesson was how to be incredibly racist, and Microsoft shut down the account.
These issues and others are spurring technologists' work to perfect chatbots. However, it is also incredible to see the progress made in the half century. Before, chatbots ran on keywords and pre-defined rules; now, many are created based on neural networks and machine learning. We are on the high-speed road toward an AI-enhanced future. With increasing research on artificial intelligence, natural language processing and machine learning, chatbots are getting increasingly efficient.
As a market that was valued at 113 million in 2015, with predicted growth to reach 994 million by 2024, we can say that chatbots are all set to grow. Companies will be investing in more sophisticated and more human-seeming chatbots. With the AI techniques behind them, chatbots will lower our dependence on screens to receive feedback from a machine. No longer will consumers have to trawl through websites and search engines to find the information they need. Instead, they will be communicating with intelligent chatbots at every stage.

